a male red-sided garter snake he
survived the winter by hibernating
underground where the temperature never
dropped below zero the weak son
persuades more males to emerge they're
cold and can't move fast yet they are in
an urgent race the first males to warm
up will have a head start when the first
females appear meltwater provides the
first drink they've had for six months
at last a female has emerged the warmest
males will inevitably be the first to
react to her smell she will only make
once so competition between them is
intense
this male has overslept
he will need hours to warm up at the
moment he stands no chance of mating
[Music]
most of the other males are ready to
chase females but curiously some leave
the race and go to join the cold male
[Music]
they slide their warm bodies over him
just as they would if they were courting
a female
[Music]
more and more males crowd around him why
their relative temperatures show what's
going on his cool body showing us blue
is quickly warming as it absorbs heat
from the other males he's a trickster
he's fooled the others by giving off a
scent just like a female's and they are
trying to mate with him he only needs a
few minutes of this to steal enough heat
from his rivals to catch up and join the
chase every spring tens of thousands of
garter snakes fight it out in this
mating frenzy
it is in numbers the greatest gathering
of reptiles in the world
[Music]
[Applause]